So that's a little bit
about cognitive load.
We're gonna explain cognitive load in
a huge amount more depth when we talk
about design later.
But the third psychological
pillar that we need to
build if we are going to
encourage high conversion is
establishing trust and
overcoming cynicism.
Trust is so, so important if we want
somebody to take action, right?
If you want somebody to do anything,
that person is gonna have to trust
you before they're willing to do it.
And this applies in all aspects of life,
but also applies online.
If we don't trust a website,
if we don't feel that it's reliable and
it's gonna deliver, then we won't use it.
We won't enter our personal information.
We certainly won't buy anything off of it.
So we need to establish trust.
The problem is that, increasingly,
people are becoming incredibly cynical and
so don't trust websites, right?
We've learnt not to trust websites
because we've been lied to so many times.
We don't trust marketing cuz
we've been lied to so many times.
So how do we do this?
How do we establish trust and
overcome cynicism?
Well, the first thing you can do is
be open, honest, and transparent.
The best example ever of this,
in my opinion, is Flickr.
I don't know whether you remember
the photo sharing site Flickr.
At one stage it was absolutely huge,
it was one of those web 2.0 companies.
In its very early days, it had a group
of early adopters that were really into
the service, but they had some
really big growth problems, right?
Their servers would go down a lot,
people would complain about it.
And then the unthinkable happened,
which is they lost a large
number of people's photographs.
You can't get much worse than that, right?
So what Flickr did is instead
of releasing a legal statement
that covered their asses,
they wrote a post saying
sometimes we suck, right,
and they just apologized.
They apologized,
they said what went wrong,
they said how they were gonna fix it, and
they said how they compensated people.
No trying to wiggle out of it,
no corporate BS, nothing like that,
they just were honest and
open and human and transparent.
And that paid off hugely for them,
they turned those early adopters into
advocates with their attitude and
their approach and their honesty.
And so often we fail to do this
basic thing on our websites,
when we fail to connect with
people as one human to another.
Most of the things that we buy,
we buy one human to another.
There's gotta be a trust and
a relationship there of some form or
another.
Let me give you an example of
how it can go wrong, right?
So part of this is really
about being human and
showing a degree of empathy, right?
I work with a lot of higher
education websites, okay?
And one of the websites I worked
with was the University of Essex.
And I was helping them refine their
messaging to be more engaging.
And I came across this piece of text
which is just a train wreck, right?
As well as ensuring students make the most
of their potential through their academic
studies, the University of Essex
provides an environment which caters for
all of the needs of its students.
By providing a range of accommodation,
catering facilities,
an active student union,
sports, and the arts, right?
Now, set aside for a moment that
that is one long sentence, right?
What the real killer there is,
is the fact that it's like
Silence of the Lambs, right?
Did you ever watch the film
Silence of the Lambs?
In that film there is a serial killer,
right?
And the serial killer kidnaps people.
And the way that he copes with
the horrible things that he does
to the people he captures,
is he refers to them in the third person.
She will put on the lotion is probably one
of the famous lines from that film, right?
Not you'll put on the lotion, she will.
And that's exactly what this
bit of text does, right?
As well as insuring students, not you,
not the person reading it, but
students, make the most of their
potential through their academic studies.
The University of Essex, not us,
not we, right, it's all third person.
And it totally undermines any
sense of humanity and empathy.
And so often websites are full of
corporate BS that is painful to read,
is dehumanizing, and
does nothing to improve conversion,
it's just clever, slick lines.
And we'll cover that in more
depth when we talk about content.
But then there's social proof, right?
Everybody talks about social proof is
the best way of building trust, right?
If this company and that company used it,
then it must be good.
Or if this person says it's good, this
person gave it a five star review, etc.
Yes, that's correct,
social proof does work.
And the reason it works is we prefer just
to kind of, rather than having to think
and make a decision ourselves, it's easier
to say, well, what did this person do?
They liked it, therefore it must be okay.
So there is a huge power in social proof.
The problem is,
is we've learned to become cynical.
And that so often these days,
we don't believe social proof anymore.
We don't believe testimonials.
We don't believe ratings.
We don't believe reviews, right?
Cuz we've been fooled far too many times.
So what can you do about that on your
websites as you go about creating them?
Well, the first thing you can
do is use a known source, right?
So if you're gonna use social proof,
don't just use some random person.
But try and quote, say, a publication
that they might have heard of,
or a body that they might have
come across, or a celebrity, or
even try and link to something
like a social media post, right?
Because one of the common things I do is,
if I post a testimonial, I try and
take those testimonies from Twitter.
Then I can include a link to
the person's bio where they say that
particular quote and
it shows that it's a real person.
Celebrity endorsements work in part,
partly because we wanna
be like the celebrity.
But part because they know that we know
that, well, if they just made that up
about that celebrity,
the celebrity would have sued their asses,
so we kinda believe it's
something that's real.
So use a known source where you can.
The other option is to rely on numbers.
This is what Amazon does.
When you see 5,000 reviews
of a particular product,
then even if some of them are rubbish,
they're not all gonna be made up,
so you get a sense.
Then the other thing is not
to remove negative comments.
One of the best reviews I ever had
talked about the work I was doing and
how great it was, but
then went on to say things like,
Paul's not afraid to challenge us and
he can be quite provocative, right?
Well, actually, that kind of reads quite
negatively, and I could have chopped that
bit out and removed it, right,
and just gone for the good bit.
But actually by including those
slightly negative comments,
it made people feel like the whole
thing was more likely to be true.
If the reviews are too shining,
if they're too perfect,
if they're too great then people are
cynical about them, they don't trust them.
I mentioned use social media already,
which is take posts from places
like Twitter and stuff like that.
And when it comes to photos and
video, make sure they real, right?
The number of times I've been to a site,
and it's like every
single photograph of people that
have got testimonials on the site,
they all look suspiciously like models,
and they're all very well lit,
and they all look very much
like stock photography.
And so instantly now I'm cynical about
the actual review that I'm reading.
So the images we pick to go with
these things is really important.
Make it a real picture of the person,
even if that picture of the person
is shit, it looks terrible.
And the same is true with video, right?
Have you ever seen one of these
videos introducing a product and
then they have customers,
using Acme has transformed my life.
And there's some really interesting
stuff that goes on there.
For a start they're word perfect,
they don't go umm or ahh in any of it.
It's all very well lit, it looks
very professional, it looks great.
But it also feels false,
it doesn't feel real.
They're obviously reading
off the teleprompter, okay?
So actually,
some of the best testimonial videos I've
ever seen were just recorded over Zoom.
And you can see it was recorded over Zoom,
it looks terrible quality.
The person's umming and ahhing, their
audio sounds awful, but he's compelling
and believable because it's got real
content, it's obviously a real person.
And the final way, the best type of
social proof is if you can get into
a position where you start connecting
your customers to one another and
they start enthusing about your product.
Let me give you a really
silly example of this.
I collect paperclips.
Now, the chances are,
you're having a little snigger in
your head at that point, right?
That's really sad, okay?
Who collects paper clips?
That's pathetic.
I don't actually collect paper clips,
I just wanted to get that reaction in you,
right?
But imagine now we're in a pub, right?
And we're all sitting around and
I announce that I like paper clips, right,
and I collect paper clips.
Then people are gonna laugh at me, right?
And everybody's gonna go,
you got paper clips.
And that's like, you have this kind of
moment of, I'm gonna shut up then, right?
I'm not gonna carry on talking
about paperclips, I'm gonna stop.
But imagine a scenario now where I go,
I like paper clips, or I collect paper
clips, and somebody else goes no way,
you don't, I collect paper clips too.
And then we start enthusing with
one another about paper clips.
And everybody else is a bit more
reluctant now to take the mickey of me,
right, and to joke about it.
And in fact they start going,
well, actually,
maybe there's something in paperclips,
perhaps I'm missing something here, right?
It's like we were talking before we
started recording about Ted Lasso,
and about how everybody keeps
telling you how good Ted Lasso is.
And so that kind of word of mouth
recommendation is really powerful, but
it's so much more powerful when you
bring together your customers and
get them talking to one another.
And you can use this on your website,
create environments where they can
share with one another and
interact with one another.
Cuz it will create a buzz and
enthusiasm around
your product that actually attracts and
draws in other people.
So social proof is incredibly
powerful at building trust, but
only if it's done in the right way.
Another way I love building trust is
through telling stories on websites.
And there are all kinds
of stories you can tell.
You can tell stories about
how the company was founded.
So, for example,
we all know Google started, not Google,
Apple, started in a garage,
in a suburban garage, right?
And we all know that early story, and
that helps humanize the company and make
the company feel not like the massive,
gigantic, ridiculous company that it is.
So talking about the company and
its origins and
its ethos and what was behind it, that
helps to make connections with people.
You can also tell the story about your
products and how they came about.
Go spend a bit of time looking
through Kickstarter, right?
If you go to the Kickstarter,
or Indiegogo,
or whatever it is,
those kinds of sites, they always
have these videos where they tell the
story about how their product came to be.
The process they went through for
creating it, where the idea came from,
all of this kinda stuff.
And they do that because by telling
this story, it starts to humanize
the product and the service and
encourage people to interact with it.
Because we're programmed as humans
to pay attention to stories, right?
Again, going back to the savannahs of
Africa, if someone stumbles back into
a camp mauled half to death by
a saber toothed tiger, you wanna hear
the story about what happened so
you can learn from it and avoid it again.
So we'll pay a lot of
attention to stories, and
stories help to make connections and
relationships.
We can also tell the story
of your customers and
the cool things they're doing
with your products and services.
And then finally,
you can tell the story of your people,
the people behind the brand.
I'll give you two quick examples of this.
Number one was Apple,
not Apple, Microsoft, right?
I don't know how many of you are as
old and decrepit as I am and
were designing websites in the late 90s,
in what was called at the time,
very melodramatically,
the browser wars, right?
And in this period of time,
all the browsers were competing
with each other with
different functionality and
support that they provided,
except for Microsoft.
Microsoft released IE6 and then stopped,
they did nothing with IE6 for
years, years and years and years.
And all the other browsers
were moving forward and
supporting more and
more web standards, but
then there was this steaming pile of
turd sitting in the corner that was IE6.
And everybody in the development
community came to absolutely
despise Microsoft as a result.
And in the end, there was a group within
Microsoft of developers who got so
fed up with this, so
fed up with being the butt of every joke,
being just persecuted for working at
Microsoft that they set up something,
I think it was called Channel Nine.
I'm not quite sure, it was a blog, right?
And they did it behind the backs of all
the corporate people and behind the backs
of marketing, and they set up this blog,
sharing what they were doing, right,
in their day to day lives,
and just talking about it.
And that blog completely changed
the dynamics of people's perception
of Microsoft.
Cuz it was easy to hate on Microsoft, but
it was really difficult to hate on Alex,
who you knew from all
the videos you were watching.
So showing the people behind your brand
really helps to create a relationship and
build trust.
Another great example is, I worked for
a company that sold frozen ready
meals to the over 80s, right?
Very niche product, but
they were hugely successful.
And we decided, they had a blog
that they needed for SEO purposes,
don't even get me into that.
But as part of that, we did some video,
which is well-known to help us SEO,
I don't understand the logic of it,
but anyway, we ended up doing it.
And we would profile different people.
And obviously, we profiled the CEO, and we
profiled the chefs that created the meals,
and it was fair enough.
But eventually we got a little bit
more desperate of people to profile.
So we decided to do a little
interview with a guy called Alexei,
I think his name was.
And he worked in the frozen area,
the packing area where
all these frozen ready
meals was shipped out from.
And he worked in minus 30 all day,
this guy did.
And he was a great guy, Polish guy,
very very enthusiastic,
really really lovely guy, and he
literally had icicles on his mustache and
his beard from working in
these kinds of temperatures.
But he was so positive and upbeat.
And we post this video of him,
he got fan mail, right?
And I'm not talking fan emails here,
I'm talking real mail through the post,
handwritten.
And he was so good,
he was such an ambassador for
the company at building relationships.
So tell stories, I've gone on about
that too long, but you get the idea.